Add guidelines for using AI to generate docs (#7996)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: contributing/documentation/ai-guidelines.md

---
description: >-
  Guidelines for Umbraco employees contributing documentation using AI tools, covering disclosure, content ownership, tooling, and PR size.
---

# AI Contribution Guidelines for UmbracoDocs

We encourage using AI tools to contribute documentation. These guidelines exist to keep the review process smooth and ensure AI-generated content meets the same quality bar as anything else we publish.

{% hint style="warning" %}
We are not currently accepting AI-generated or AI-assisted documentation contributions from external contributors. This policy may be revisited in the future.
{% endhint %}

## 1. Disclose AI use in your PR description

> Tell us whether the content is **fully AI-generated** or **AI-assisted** (for example, AI expanded an outline, rewrote sections, or suggested phrasing). Apply the **AI-generated PR label**.

Reviewer: Do we have the same label for both use cases - AI-generated and AI-assisted?

Author: I don't think the distinction between these two matters. When AI has been used to generate the content, we should use the AI-generated label.

> The documentation team will add a transparency tag to published articles.

Reviewer: Do you mean announcement, or will you add a tag called "transparency/something else" to specific articles?

Author: The idea is to add a "AI-generated" (or similar named) to the articles - like we talked about.

If AI use isn't disclosed, we'll reach out before the review begins so we know which approach to take.

## 2. You own the content

The documentation team reviews for style and consistency, but technical accuracy is your area. Before submitting, it's worth double-checking:

- **Code samples** — run them to make sure they work as expected.

> - **Version references** — APIs, namespaces, and feature availability for the correct Umbraco version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Technical Accuracy** — APIs, namespaces, and feature availability for the correct Umbraco version.
```

Author: I think this should remain related to versions, as that's a big factor in our docs. The technical accuracy should be self-explanatory and it also mentioned briefly in the paragraph above.

> 

Reviewer: Would it make sense to add these two as well?

- Link & Image Verification: AI often "hallucinates" file paths. Ensure all relative links and image paths in `.gitbook/assets` actually exist.

- Data Privacy: Do not paste sensitive internal data, unreleased partner information, or credentials into public AI models.

Author: I had the Links part in here to begin with, but took it out, since we already have the automated checks in place here on GitHub.

We already have general contribution guidelines - also for AI, so these generals things shouldn't be repeated here, I think.

Any feedback we receive on articles you've generated with AI will be directed back to you. This includes feedback via PR, issue, or directly from our documentation platform.

## 3. Use the `umbraco-docs-content` skill

The repo includes the **[`umbraco-docs-content` skill](https://github.com/umbraco/UmbracoDocs/blob/main/.claude/skills/umbraco-docs-content/SKILL.md)** built for our structure, tone, and formatting. We recommend using it exclusively.

> 

Reviewer: AI tends to add "editorializing" words (for example, simply, easily, just, in order to). Even when using the skill, manually prune these words during your final pass.

Author: This shouldn't be necessary. If AI consistently keeps adding these words, we should consider updating the skill to be more strict on this rule.

In any case, the linter will pick them up on their PRs, and they can resolve them there 🙏

Using other prompts, custom skills, or third-party templates is **not recommended**, as it risks inconsistency across the documentation. If you spot something the skill does poorly, suggest an improvement — don't work around it.

## 4. Maximum 10 files per PR

> We ask that AI-generated PRs stay within **10 article files**. This isn't an arbitrary number — it comes down to two practical limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We ask that AI-generated PRs stay within **10 article files**. This isn't an arbitrary number, it comes down to two practical limitations:
```

- **Vale linting** — GitHub Actions caps annotations at 50 per job. In a larger PR, violations in later files won't surface, meaning automated feedback becomes incomplete.
- **AI review reliability** — We've found that AI-assisted review becomes less thorough when evaluating a large number of articles at once, and things slip through that we'd rather catch early.

Keeping PRs smaller means better automated coverage, more reliable review, and less back-and-forth for everyone.

{% hint style="warning" %}

> Over 10 files = you'll be asked to split the PR before review starts.

Reviewer: PRs exceeding 10 files will be closed and requested to be split before the PR review starts.

Author: I don't think the tone should be that hard 😅
